Hello this is Kiril from for X dot com.
And welcome back to the course on testing and optimization in Medicaid for today's tutorial we will
back test and optimize our expert Yser simple system version Oh as you can see I have the strategy tester
window open here and I've already selected the simple system version 5 point 0 4 x robot.
So please go ahead and do that as well.
Next you need to check that the symbol is British pound dollar and that's a very common mistake that
traders forget to set the right symbol and optimize on your dollar and the results of course are wrong
.
Next the period should be one hour.
We won't be using every tick model but we will be using the open process model and this is because as
you recall from a tutorial in section 2 of this course we discussed that expert advisors like simple
system which use only open prices and or close prices in their analysis will always have the same modeling
results on any of these three types of models so we will take advantage of that and that will significantly
reduce the time required for our back tests and optimizations.
In today's tutorial.
Next we'll leave the spread at current the dates that we will use.
I'll just open up a slide from one of the previous tutorials as you can see here.
We want to run back tests and forward tests.
So we'll take four months in total.
All four of the past months will use the first three four back tests and then one month for forward
test.
So let's go ahead and do that.
So like today 8th of September of 2014.
So now we're going to go back four months one two three four.
That's it may.
And then so today and then we'll go back one month.
So this is where we will be running our back tests if we go to expert properties and go to inputs just
check that these are default.
You can do that by clicking reset the default parameters all leave those and click OK and we'll run
our first back test just by clicking right.
As you can see here there's already one trade there's another trade that's a profit that's a loss that
looks like a profit.
Another profit or another profit.
If we look at the graph it's slowly being built over here.
So I'll just speed this up to the max.
As you can see we incurred a loss as a result of this back test and of course we need to improve that
situation by doing some optimizations.
So that's exactly what we'll move on to right now to do.
We'll go to expert properties.
Start with the testing tab.
We want to take genetic algorithm because that's something we'll discuss further down the course and
we don't need today inputs.
We're going to set the following inputs.
So start are we want to optimize every single hour possible.
And so we want to start with 0 step 1 and go up to 23 min limit.
We want to optimize from zero focus step 1 to 10 take profit.
We want to optimize from 10 to 10 to 100.
And of course if your broker is 5 digit then you have to multiply the value of take profit by 10.
Just as with many people limit and Stop-Loss as well.
Stop-Loss who want to optimize 10 10 up to 100 lots.
We don't want to optimize user may feel to want to start with true optimize up to false and MA period
.
We want to optimize something with 10 step of 10 up to 100.
So that's quite a lot.
There'll be a huge number of combinations in these parameters.
And one more thing before we start the optimization we want to go into the optimization tab and we will
discuss limitations further down in the course in more detail.
But today what we want to do is we want to set maximal drawdown to 15.
So just make sure that you after you said it you press enter others won't save.
And what that will do is it will discard sets of parameters that yield a result that has a drawdown
of more than 15 percent.
So basically that will save us some time going through those on undesired result.
So we'll click OK here take the optimization tab and click start.
So as you can see a visual mode was unchecked by itself if Google optimization results we're starting
to see results here.
And I'll just confirm that I have the Skipp useless results check box unchecked.
You can have it checked or checked doesn't really matter if you go to the optimization graph.
We can already see some preliminary results appearing on the chart.
So this line is zero.
And then above is profitable Billos negative So what are we going to do now is because there is such
a huge number of parameters 520000 even an open prices.
Modeling is going to take four minutes.
So I'll just let it finish.
I'll pause the recording for these four minutes and then I'll be back with you once the optimization
has completed.
So the optimization has finished and as you can see it took just over four and a half minutes.
If we go to the optimization results and we pick the best result here which yielded four thousand dollars
in our back tests.
So right click and we'll set input parameters.
If we were unstarted Now then as you can see the visual mode optimization checkbox has been checked
automatically.
Now if we go to Grof this is what the best result looks like and it looks right to for this maybe drawdown
down here so what we'll do is we'll go to settings or go to extra properties this settings that have
been auto populated for us.
We'll save them a simple system.
Underscore one save that yes and OK.
So what I want to do now is I want to pick out best ones that I like from this list of results that
we see here and then save them all.
Like I just did with this one and then use those saved sets to run the four tests.
So let's go to the next one here for example.
It it will look very similar because similar results are next to each other in that report.
But what I want to show you is that the drawdowns are quite high and you might not like that so if we
keep scrolling and you'll see that the next good parameters are here the drawdowns are still substantial
So we said and prepared amateur's that's a very big draw down and say if you don't like that then what
you can do is you can rerun this optimization and set the drawdown limit to 10 percent and that's exactly
what we'll do.
And it will save us some time in our analysis as we won't have to look through these drawdowns that
are higher than 10 percent.
We'll just go to settings exper properties optimization and we'll change this from 15 to 10.
Click Enter.
OK check optimization again.
Just click start.
So once again it will take some time but it will save you time in your visual analysis of the results
.
So I'll be back with you once this is done.
All right as you can see the optimization has been completed and let's go to the result and up here
we have the top results which all have approximately the same profit start hours for.
So scroll down and see if we find any interesting ones.
How about that one.
This one stands out because all of the rest have used them a filter equals zero.
This one has one equals one.
So it doesn't really matter which one we pick because the profit is Gracchus And so we pick that one
set and parameters start and let's have a look at the graph graph looks good.
So we can definitely use this one go forward.
So I'd say that will just change the name of this one.
So we remember that that was our equals 10.
And in this case we said to our equals four.
So go ahead and say that.
OK.
Now let's go find another one.
We've got optimization results and another handy trick I recommend is how they're ordered by profit
.
But now we can look for by just crawling down the street looking for the lowest drawdown that we can
find.
So so far we're a seven.
So basically meaning that it's kind of like still a high profit but the drawdown is really low.
So 7 8 9 still so and see what we can get a 10 6.
Aha.
So you see the drawdowns have dropped to 4.
And the funny thing is that profit is all the same for them.
Four point twenty one and the store hours also the same.
So that's that's kind of an interesting observation.
So let's let's just pick out a random one and look at the chart and the charts.
Pretty cool as well.
Looks like the tech profits are quite low and the Stop-Loss the high and so out of these ones which
you would want to do is because because the results are kind of all the same it doesn't really matter
which one which one you pick but you want to you want to kind of like it just look at the pattern here
and you can see that the stop loss is the take off is fixed but the stop loss is dropping.
So from 198 to 60 50 and 100 and so on.
So you want to you don't want to pick one of the highest A-plus because if this basically means that
it doesn't really matter what's the plus will send these back to us.
But if in the future Stop-Loss is triggered.
You don't want it to be 100 but you don't.
Also you don't want to set it like at the lowest one because in that case maybe there is there will
be a potential in your forward test to trigger it.
So you want to maybe choose somewhere in between and I don't know like I try to go conservative anyways
so maybe let's take stock or 60 and let's just check that the chart is the same.
Got to graph it is the same and it's kind of three Liniers pre-fall chart and it's different to the
ones we've already had.
It's good to have this variety of results in your sets.
And so we'll just go ahead and say that one.
And so that's our answer.
That's the third one we picked our was 8.
So so that's OK.
Now let's move on.
And so that's another way to mix it up is look just look at the ones you have and you know that our
is a very important parameter.
And so far we get 4 8 10.
So how about we look for something in between the first or the lowest to the foreign aid.
So the so for five or six or seven.
And then we go up back so ordered by profit and then we just scroll down and look for the first five
six or seven that we come across.
So it was a mine that was 10 8.
There were seven so if we take the top seven set and pair up and put parameters restart.
And that chart looks a lot like the eight.
But there seems to be more trades.
So we'll go ahead and take that on as well.
Safe.
So this will be four and this one is a seven.
OK.
All right so now let's go from the top and we find the first first one that's not a 4 or not anything
where we have there's nine.
So how are we set parameters.
Start.
The chart is pretty good so I think we'll keep that one expert properties and so will save that 9 1
9.
All right.
OK.
And what I wanted to draw attention to is that this 9 is soul.
It's like solo it's by itself among these four so that that's not really good because you want there
to be many nines.
They want a cluster of them saying that.
Meaning that if you do change the parameters around then the profit doesn't go away too far.
So let's go look for more nines and see if we can find a cluster of them
shouldn't be too far off.
There's another soul nine so there is a cluster of nines.
But what we want is we want results similar to that one and if you if you recall up here or we just
came because we did run the test.
We can just go to the report and you can see here that the profit factor for example was 2.00.
So let's see if we can get a higher profit factor than that.
Just keep scrolling shouldn't be too far.
And bear in mind the profits are all pretty much the same.
So we're not losing too much by scrolling down.
So there we go.
So those are two two point fourteen.
That's that that is in Paramus.
That's a good chart.
And there's another one that's also good chart.
And you can see they're very similar.
So what we will do is in the next to Tauriel I'll show you how to use these parameters to run a more
precise optimization around this particular night set to start with start our 9.
I think that's enough optimizations for one day.
We'll continue next time.
And until then Happy training.